# A Central limit theorem for Thompson group $F$

## The Thompson group $F$
The Thompson group $F$ admits an infinite presentations 
<p align="center">
$\langle x_0, x_1, ...| x_n x_l = x_l x_{n+1}$ for all $l < n\rangle$
</p>
respectively [CFP, B].

Every element of $F$ can be represented by pairs of binary trees with the same number of leaves and such pairs are called binary tree diagrams. 
The representation is non-unique, but there exists a unique minimal representive, that is with minimal number of leaves.

$F$ contains interesting monoids. The positive monoid $F_+$ of $F$ is the one generated by $x_0$, $x_1$, ...
and its elements are called positive.

## The oriented subgroup $\vec{F}$
The oriented subgroup $\vec{F}$ was introduced by V. Jones in [Jo14] to produce oriented knots/links and later studied by Golan and Sapir. 
After that, in [A1] (see also [A2]) it was proved an Alexander type theorem for $\vec{F}$, that is every oriented knot/link can be produced by a suitable element of $\vec{F}$.

## A 'chromatic' state and its moments
Consider the linear functional $\varphi: \mathbb{C}[F] \to \mathbb{C}$ defined as
 $$
 \varphi(g):=\frac{{\rm Chr}_{\Gamma(g)}(2)}{2} \quad \text{ for any $g\in F$.}
 $$
 When evaluated at an element of $F$, this functional returns $1$ if the element belongs to $\OF$, and $0$ otherwise.

In this project, we examine the elements
$$
a_n:=\frac{(x_n+x_n^{-1})}{\sqrt{2}} \qquad s_n:=\frac{\left(\sum_{i=0}^{n-1} a_i\right)}{\sqrt{n}}
$$
and we aim to compute $(x_n+x_n^{-1})}{\sqrt{2}} \varphi(s_n^k)$ for all $n$, $k$ in $\mathbb{N}_0$.

## Bibliography
[A1] V. Aiello, On the Alexander Theorem for the oriented Thompson group F. Algebraic & Geometric Topology 20.1 (2020): 429-438.

[A2] V. Aiello, An introduction to Thompson knot theory and to Jones subgroups. accepted for publication in J. of Knot Theory and its Ramifications (2022).

[B] J. Belk, Thompson's group F. Ph.D. Thesis (Cornell University).  preprint arXiv:0708.3609 (2007).

[CFP]
J.W. Cannon, W.J Floyd,   W.R. Parry, 
Introductory notes on Richard Thompson's groups.
L'Enseignement  Mathématique
42 (1996): 215-256

[GS] Golan, Gili, and Mark Sapir. On Jones' subgroup of R. Thompson group F. Journal of Algebra 470 (2017): 122-159.

[Jo14] V.F.R. Jones, Some unitary representations of Thompson's groups $F$ and $T$. J. Comb. Algebra 1 (2017), 1-44.

